# Project 3
Quan Sun

## Background and Data Source

These datasets are from the shelter side of Urban Ministries of Durham(UMD) who connects with the community to end homelessness and fight poverty by offering food, shelter and a future to neighbors in need. The datasets consist of 16 tables, including information about clients upon entry to and exit from the shelter, such as basic demographics, income, insurance, etc. 

The datasets are available here: https://github.com/biodatascience/datasci611/tree/gh-pages/data/project2_2019

## Questions

1. Summary statistics of people entering shelter (such as age, gender, race, etc.).

2. Specific analysis to individual client that who came most often and who stayed the longest time.

3. What influenced the staying days of clients?

4. Was there any significant improvement about people's lives after staying in the shelter for a while?


## Analysis Approaches

1. Using python to process data.

2. Using R to plot.

3. Using Docker to create an environment with both python and R.

4. Using Make file to run all the codes.

## The structure

1. Two more datasets (clients_diff.tsv, client_final.tsv) in the /data folder were generated by the python script.

2. Five scripts in the /scripts folder were written.

3. Several plots were generated by R and python scripts in the /results folder, and one report was also there.

## How to run my code on VCL
Step 1. Git clone my github folder /project_3.

Step 2. Navigate into the /scripts folder.

Step 3. Type "make". The figures would be generated in the /results folder (They are not in there now).

Please let me know if you run into any issues trying to run my codes.

Email: quansun@live.unc.edu 


